[Music]
uh
well it depends on what you mean by
imbalance uh
but i would say that there are two the
pandemic has revealed
two great vulnerabilities or two great
weaknesses
um and i will talk about them separately
because they're really quite separate
things
number one is that it's revealed the
idea that
in general the world's capacity
to handle pandemics is is much poorer
than we had anticipated
um the during many phases of this
pandemic
the important institutions such as the
world health organization and the uh
in america the center for diseases
control had the opportunity
to contain the pandemic uh in fact uh
right from the beginning right from the
very first day
uh there was an imbalance and you could
call it a political imbalance or a
medical imbalance
between the between the
severity of this virus and our public
health response to it
um the wuhan
authorities uh should have been
more should have had more higher degree
of alacrity instead of trying to
suppress the information
uh they should have uh launched
their uh they should have been more open
about the severity
of what happened they still have not
been actually open we still don't know
exactly how the pandemic originated and
how it spread
and there has been resistance there's
been a constant level of resistance
um to find out um so so that so
right from the beginning uh all the way
to the who and to the cdc
uh i would say a series of mistakes were
made
which should not have been made and uh
our capacity
overall globally to fight pandemics
has been revealed as quite weak and this
you might call
is a is an imbalance of a political
imbalance a political
uh a lack of uh
appropriate uh measures to
control a pandemic that was in in its
beginning
in fact had this pandemic being
appropriately controlled
at the very beginning we would not have
been seeing the terrifying consequences
across the world
and it was not um the second
is that there is as i just referred to
you um
there is the virus this particular virus
also causes we now know a very
peculiar imbalance in the
immune response to it and
that peculiar imbalance we have begun to
understand
but it's also highlighted the idea that
although
we are nearly looking at a century or
nearly 100 years
of research in immunology we still
don't understand fundamental aspects of
viral immunology
and vaccine development in in a way that
we
really should you know 100 years or 150
years since we
have understood the immune system we do
not understand some fundamental features
of it
i'll give you some examples one example
i just gave you
is that for reasons that we don't really
understand
there is a this virus causes
a peculiar immune dysfunction
in fact an immune dysfunction that has
been seen really before
in patients who have been treated with
a particular kinds of cancer therapies
that involve
um uh bone marrow transplantation for
instance or
t cell transplantation uh the virus
for some reason this uh release of
uh of these uh factors these
inflammatory inflammation
is very reminiscent of um a similar
situation that we've seen
in in experimental treatments for cancer
uh involving t cells this response
is i was unexpected we have just begun
to learn about it
and it reminds us that us that there are
fundamental features of immunology
and vaccine development that we still
don't know so far
and i'm happy to discuss this these
unknowns in greater detail as we move
along